Enable test in parallel with Helix (and non helix and helix test also in parallel) (#14532)
dotnet/sdk: documentation/project-docs/repro-helix-failure.md

# Repro Helix Failure

## General

> Most of the test failure on helix should be able to repro locally. Try follow [developer-guide](developer-guide.md) _Run tests from the command line_ session first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most test failures on helix should repro locally. Try following the [developer-guide](developer-guide.md) _Run tests from the command line_ section first.
```

## Repro test as tool layout

> Run test on Helix reuse "test as tool" infrastructure. All tests projects are published with xunit command line. The SDK under test, the published test project and other dependencies are copied to a helix machine. This step changed the repo structure. Most of the helix-only failures are caused by tests depending on the repo structure or having dependencies that are not carried by the test project publishing step. The following steps helps you to repro the test layout as in the helix machine. And you can run the individual test to discover the cause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running tests on Helix reuses the "test as tool" infrastructure. All tests projects are published  as tools that accept xunit command line arguments. The SDK under test, the published test project, and other dependencies are copied to a helix machine. This step changes the repo structure. Most of the helix-only failures are caused by tests depending on the repo structure or having dependencies that are not carried by the test project publishing step. The following steps help you to repro the test layout that is used on the helix machine. And you can run the individual test to discover the cause.
```

```cmd
dotnet publish src\Tests\Microsoft.NET.Build.Tests\
```

The output is in `artifacts\bin\Tests\Microsoft.NET.Build.Tests\Debug\publish`. Copy this folder to another directory or VM. For example `C:\helix\payload-dir`. This is the "workitem payload" in helix term.

On the other machine or directory

```cmd
cd C:\helix\payload-dir

REM HELIX_CORRELATION_PAYLOAD would be set to correlation payload by real helix machine
set HELIX_CORRELATION_PAYLOAD=C:\helix\localHelixTestLayout

REM "true" is full framework test. Without "true", it is dotnet core tests. RunTestsOnHelix.cmd is the same script will setup the helix environnement.
C:\helix\localHelixTestLayout\t\RunTestsOnHelix.cmd true
```

Example of running a specific method. "Microsoft.NET.Build.Tests.dll" need to match the test project target output dll.

```cmd
dotnet Microsoft.NET.Build.Tests.dll -testExecutionDirectory %TestExecutionDirectory% -msbuildAdditionalSdkResolverFolder %HELIX_CORRELATION_PAYLOAD%\r -html testResults.html -method "Microsoft.NET.Build.Tests.GivenThatWeWantToBuildADesktopExeWithFSharp.It_builds_a_simple_net50_app"
```

## Folders under localHelixTestLayout

> Due to Helix long path problem. The folders under localHelixTestLayout all have one letter name.

Reviewer: Can we enable long paths on Helix machines?  We should try to avoid having to workaround long path issues, as we're likely to eventually go over the max path and have hard-to-diagnose issues.

Author: I had a long talk about the long path issue. Last year for at least a month. (We first found it 2 years ago for the perf tests and started to ask for it) it is not easy, due to the way it is configured. Although, we get the path on helix trimmed, it used to have 2 guid in front.

- d - stage 2 dotnet
- ex - msbuildExtensions
- r - Microsoft.DotNet.MSBuildSdkResolver
- t - other loose file needed to recreate the environment like global.json and eng folder (used to find VS or xcopy msbuild), NuGet.config, RunTestsOnHelix.cmd (used to set up environment variable on helix).

## Other possible cause of Helix-only failure

> - Helix machine are not the same configuration as the host machine. Ideally the dependency should be declared by the SDK repo itself. At the time the document is written. The build queue and the helix queue should have the same configuration. If they are diverged, we should contact arcade team.

Reviewer: What do you mean by configuration here?  Build vs debug?

Author: Used "pre-installed dependencies" instead. It is mainly about VS version
